Notes:

1. HTTP Protocols - An HTTP request is a message sent by a client to a server to trigger an action, and HTTP is the Hypertext Transfer Protocol that defines how data is exchanged between a client and server on the internet

2. Request response model - The request-response model is a fundamental communication pattern. It describes how data is exchanged between a `client` and a `server` or between two systems.

3. Domain names - The way to reach a sever is through its `Domain name`. For example: 
        i.google.com
        ii. app.100xdevs.com
        iii. x.com

4. IPs - Every domain that we see, actually has an underlying IP that it `resolves` to. You can check the ip by running the `ping` command.

5. Ports - Port is a virtual point that manages network connections and directs data to a specific service. Ports are software-based and managed by a computer's operating system.

6. Methods - HTTP methods are used to specify the type of action (CRUD - Create, Read, Update, Delete) that the client wants to perform on a resource on the server. Common methods :
        i. GET -  Retrieve data from a server. (Get my TODOS)
        ii. POST - Submit data to be processed by a server. (Create a TODO)
        iii. PUT - Update or create a resource on the server (Update my todo)
        iv. DELETE - Remove a resource from the server. (Delete my todo)

7. JSON Data - JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a standard text-based format for representing structured data based on JavaScript object syntax. 

8. Status codes - HTTP status codes are three-digit numbers returned by a server to indicate the outcome of a client’s request. They provide information about the status of the request and the server's response. Example: 
        i. 200 series (Success)
        ii. 300 series (Redirection)
        iii. 400 series (Client Error)
        iv. 500 series (Server Error)

9. Body - In HTTP communications, the body (or payload) refers to the part of an HTTP message that contains the actual data being sent to the server. It is usually `JSON` data that is transferred to the server.

10. Routes - In the context of HTTP, routes are paths or endpoints that define how incoming requests are handled by a server. Routes let the user specify what he/she is doing.